website/content/docs/plugins/agents/droid.mdx, before:

---
title: Factory Droid Agent
description: Run Factory Droid CLI (droid) as an autonomous agent in Ralph TUI.
---

## Factory Droid Agent

The Factory Droid agent plugin integrates with the `droid` CLI so Ralph TUI can execute tasks with Factory Droid alongside Claude Code and OpenCode.

<Callout type="tip">
Factory Droid supports subagent tracing via JSONL stream output. Enable tracing to view tool calls, costs, and execution events.
</Callout>

## Prerequisites

Install the Factory Droid CLI and authenticate:

```bash
# Install droid and ensure it is on your PATH
# (Follow Factory Droid installation instructions)

droid --version
```

Set `FACTORY_API_KEY` in your environment (or run `droid auth`).

## Basic Usage

<Steps>
  <Step title="Run with Factory Droid">
    Use the `--agent droid` flag:

    ```bash
    ralph-tui run --prd ./prd.json --agent droid
    ```
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Configuration

### Shorthand Config

Basic configuration:

```toml
# .ralph-tui/config.toml
agent = "droid"

[agentOptions]
model = "claude-opus-4-5-20251101"
reasoningEffort = "medium"
skipPermissions = false
enableTracing = true
```

### Full Config

For advanced control:

```toml
[[agents]]
name = "droid"
plugin = "droid"
default = true

[agents.options]
model = "claude-opus-4-5-20251101"
reasoningEffort = "high"
skipPermissions = true
enableTracing = true
```

### Options Reference

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `model` | string | - | Model name passed to the droid CLI via `--model` |
| `reasoningEffort` | `low` \| `medium` \| `high` | - | Reasoning effort level passed via `--reasoning-effort` |
| `skipPermissions` | boolean | `false` | Enables `--skip-permissions-unsafe` for autonomous runs |
| `enableTracing` | boolean | `true` | Enables JSONL stream output (`--output-format stream-json`) |

## Models and Reasoning Effort

Factory Droid supports passing a model name and reasoning effort level. Configure via `agentOptions` and refer to the official list of available models:

- **[Factory Droid available models](https://docs.factory.ai/reference/cli-reference#available-models)**

```toml
[agentOptions]
model = "claude-opus-4-5-20251101"
reasoningEffort = "high"
```

## Subagent Tracing

When `enableTracing = true` and subagent tracing is enabled in the TUI, Ralph TUI requests JSONL stream output and parses:

- Tool calls and arguments
- Assistant messages and result events
- Error/status events
- Cost metrics (tokens, cache stats, USD)

Toggle tracing in the TUI:
- Press `t` to cycle tracing detail levels
- Press `u` to show/hide the tracing panel

<Callout type="info">
Tracing requires `subagentTracingDetail` to be set above `"off"`.
</Callout>

## Autonomous Operation (Skip Permissions)

Factory Droid normally asks for permission before executing tool actions. Set `skipPermissions = true` to bypass prompts:

```toml
[agentOptions]
skipPermissions = true
```

<Callout type="warning">
Only enable skip permissions for trusted tasks. The agent will run without interactive approvals.
</Callout>

## How It Works

Ralph TUI builds a command similar to:

```bash
droid exec \
  --model claude-opus-4-5-20251101 \
  --reasoning-effort high \
  --skip-permissions-unsafe \
  --output-format stream-json \
  --cwd /path/to/project \
  "<prompt>"
```

Key behaviors:
1. **Non-interactive mode**: Uses `droid exec` subcommand with prompt as argument
2. **Tracing**: `--output-format stream-json` when tracing is enabled
3. **Working directory**: `--cwd` set to the current task workspace

## Troubleshooting

### "droid CLI not found"

Ensure `droid` is installed and in your PATH:

```bash
which droid
# Should output: /path/to/droid
```

### "Authentication failed"

Set `FACTORY_API_KEY` or run `droid auth`.

### "Tracing not showing"

1. Ensure `enableTracing = true`
2. Ensure `subagentTracingDetail` is not `"off"`
3. Press `u` to show the tracing panel

## Next Steps

- **[Claude Code Agent](/docs/plugins/agents/claude)** - Anthropic-specific agent with tracing
- **[OpenCode Agent](/docs/plugins/agents/opencode)** - Multi-provider agent
- **[Configuration](/docs/configuration/options)** - Full options reference

Commit message:

docs: fix skipPermissions default value in droid docs

website/content/docs/plugins/agents/droid.mdx, after:

---
title: Factory Droid Agent
description: Run Factory Droid CLI (droid) as an autonomous agent in Ralph TUI.
---

## Factory Droid Agent

The Factory Droid agent plugin integrates with the `droid` CLI so Ralph TUI can execute tasks with Factory Droid alongside Claude Code and OpenCode.

<Callout type="tip">
Factory Droid supports subagent tracing via JSONL stream output. Enable tracing to view tool calls, costs, and execution events.
</Callout>

## Prerequisites

Install the Factory Droid CLI and authenticate:

```bash
# Install droid and ensure it is on your PATH
# (Follow Factory Droid installation instructions)

droid --version
```

Set `FACTORY_API_KEY` in your environment (or run `droid auth`).

## Basic Usage

<Steps>
  <Step title="Run with Factory Droid">
    Use the `--agent droid` flag:

    ```bash
    ralph-tui run --prd ./prd.json --agent droid
    ```
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Configuration

### Shorthand Config

Basic configuration:

```toml
# .ralph-tui/config.toml
agent = "droid"

[agentOptions]
model = "claude-opus-4-5-20251101"
reasoningEffort = "medium"
skipPermissions = false
enableTracing = true
```

### Full Config

For advanced control:

```toml
[[agents]]
name = "droid"
plugin = "droid"
default = true

[agents.options]
model = "claude-opus-4-5-20251101"
reasoningEffort = "high"
skipPermissions = true
enableTracing = true
```

### Options Reference

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `model` | string | - | Model name passed to the droid CLI via `--model` |
| `reasoningEffort` | `low` \| `medium` \| `high` | - | Reasoning effort level passed via `--reasoning-effort` |
| `skipPermissions` | boolean | `true` | Enables `--skip-permissions-unsafe` for autonomous runs |
| `enableTracing` | boolean | `true` | Enables JSONL stream output (`--output-format stream-json`) |

## Models and Reasoning Effort

Factory Droid supports passing a model name and reasoning effort level. Configure via `agentOptions` and refer to the official list of available models:

- **[Factory Droid available models](https://docs.factory.ai/reference/cli-reference#available-models)**

```toml
[agentOptions]
model = "claude-opus-4-5-20251101"
reasoningEffort = "high"
```

## Subagent Tracing

When `enableTracing = true` and subagent tracing is enabled in the TUI, Ralph TUI requests JSONL stream output and parses:

- Tool calls and arguments
- Assistant messages and result events
- Error/status events
- Cost metrics (tokens, cache stats, USD)

Toggle tracing in the TUI:
- Press `t` to cycle tracing detail levels
- Press `u` to show/hide the tracing panel

<Callout type="info">
Tracing requires `subagentTracingDetail` to be set above `"off"`.
</Callout>

## Autonomous Operation (Skip Permissions)

Factory Droid normally asks for permission before executing tool actions. By default, Ralph TUI enables `skipPermissions = true` for autonomous operation. To require manual approvals, disable it:

```toml
[agentOptions]
skipPermissions = false
```

<Callout type="warning">
With skip permissions enabled (the default), the agent runs without interactive approvals. Set `skipPermissions = false` if you need manual confirmation of tool actions.
</Callout>

## How It Works

Ralph TUI builds a command similar to:

```bash
droid exec \
  --model claude-opus-4-5-20251101 \
  --reasoning-effort high \
  --skip-permissions-unsafe \
  --output-format stream-json \
  --cwd /path/to/project \
  "<prompt>"
```

Key behaviors:
1. **Non-interactive mode**: Uses `droid exec` subcommand with prompt as argument
2. **Tracing**: `--output-format stream-json` when tracing is enabled
3. **Working directory**: `--cwd` set to the current task workspace

## Troubleshooting

### "droid CLI not found"

Ensure `droid` is installed and in your PATH:

```bash
which droid
# Should output: /path/to/droid
```

### "Authentication failed"

Set `FACTORY_API_KEY` or run `droid auth`.

### "Tracing not showing"

1. Ensure `enableTracing = true`
2. Ensure `subagentTracingDetail` is not `"off"`
3. Press `u` to show the tracing panel

## Next Steps

- **[Claude Code Agent](/docs/plugins/agents/claude)** - Anthropic-specific agent with tracing
- **[OpenCode Agent](/docs/plugins/agents/opencode)** - Multi-provider agent
- **[Configuration](/docs/configuration/options)** - Full options reference
