website/content/docs/parallel/task-dependencies.mdx, before:

---
title: Task Dependencies
description: How dependsOn and blocks fields drive parallelism detection, with examples of task graphs and parallel groups.
---

# Task Dependencies

Parallel execution is driven by the dependency relationships between your tasks. Ralph analyzes the `dependsOn` and `blocks` fields on each task to build a directed acyclic graph (DAG), then groups tasks that can safely run simultaneously.

## Dependency Fields

Every tracker task has two dependency fields:

| Field | Direction | Meaning |
|-------|-----------|---------|
| `dependsOn` | Incoming | This task cannot start until the listed tasks complete |
| `blocks` | Outgoing | The listed tasks cannot start until this task completes |

These are inverses of each other. If task B `dependsOn` task A, then task A `blocks` task B.

## Graph Analysis

Ralph uses **Kahn's algorithm** (topological sort) to:

1. Build an adjacency list from task dependencies
2. Detect cycles (tasks that depend on each other, directly or indirectly)
3. Compute depth levels (distance from root tasks with no dependencies)
4. Group tasks by depth — same-depth tasks with no mutual dependencies form a **parallel group**

### Example

Given these tasks:

```
A: "Set up database schema"         (no dependencies)
B: "Create API endpoints"           (depends on A)
C: "Write unit tests for API"       (depends on B)
D: "Design landing page"            (no dependencies)
E: "Build authentication flow"      (depends on A)
F: "Write integration tests"        (depends on B, E)
```

The dependency graph looks like:

```
Depth 0:  A ─────────── D
          │
Depth 1:  B ──── E
          │     │
Depth 2:  C     F
```

This produces three parallel groups:

| Group | Tasks | Why Parallel |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 0 | A, D | No dependencies, no mutual conflicts |
| 1 | B, E | Both depend only on A (completed in group 0) |
| 2 | C, F | Both depend on group 1 tasks |

With `maxWorkers: 3`, groups 0 and 1 run 2 workers each. Group 2 also runs 2 workers.

## Structuring Tasks for Parallelism

To maximize parallel execution:

<Callout type="tip">
  Keep tasks focused and independent. Split large features into small tasks that touch different parts of the codebase.
</Callout>

### Good: Independent Tasks

```yaml
# These can all run in parallel (no shared dependencies)
- "Add user profile page"         # Touches: src/pages/profile/
- "Fix search pagination bug"     # Touches: src/search/
- "Update email templates"        # Touches: templates/email/
```

### Bad: Overly Coupled Tasks

```yaml
# These must run sequentially (each depends on the previous)
- "Create base component library"
- "Build form components using base library"
- "Build page layouts using form components"
```

### Tips

- **Separate concerns by directory** — tasks touching different directories rarely conflict
- **Avoid circular dependencies** — cyclic tasks cannot be parallelized and run sequentially
- **Use explicit dependencies** — set `dependsOn`/`blocks` in your tracker to guide the graph
- **Batch related changes** — one task for "add + test authentication" is better than separate tasks that both touch `auth/`

## Auto-Detection Heuristic

Ralph automatically determines whether parallel execution is beneficial:

| Condition | Required | Reason |
|-----------|----------|--------|
| ≥2 tasks in at least one group | Yes | Need concurrent work to justify overhead |
| ≥3 total tasks | Yes | Worktree setup cost not worth it for 2 tasks |
| ≤50% cyclic tasks | Yes | Too many cycles means too little parallelism |

If any condition fails, ralph falls back to sequential execution automatically.

## Cycle Handling

Tasks involved in dependency cycles are **excluded from parallel groups** and run sequentially after all parallel groups complete. Ralph logs a warning when cycles are detected:

```
⚠ Detected 2 tasks in dependency cycles — these will run sequentially
```

Commit message:

docs: align parallel mode defaults in website docs

website/content/docs/parallel/task-dependencies.mdx, after:

---
title: Task Dependencies
description: How dependsOn and blocks fields drive parallelism detection, with examples of task graphs and parallel groups.
---

# Task Dependencies

Parallel execution is driven by the dependency relationships between your tasks. Ralph analyzes the `dependsOn` and `blocks` fields on each task to build a directed acyclic graph (DAG), then groups tasks that can safely run simultaneously.

## Dependency Fields

Every tracker task has two dependency fields:

| Field | Direction | Meaning |
|-------|-----------|---------|
| `dependsOn` | Incoming | This task cannot start until the listed tasks complete |
| `blocks` | Outgoing | The listed tasks cannot start until this task completes |

These are inverses of each other. If task B `dependsOn` task A, then task A `blocks` task B.

## Graph Analysis

Ralph uses **Kahn's algorithm** (topological sort) to:

1. Build an adjacency list from task dependencies
2. Detect cycles (tasks that depend on each other, directly or indirectly)
3. Compute depth levels (distance from root tasks with no dependencies)
4. Group tasks by depth — same-depth tasks with no mutual dependencies form a **parallel group**

### Example

Given these tasks:

```
A: "Set up database schema"         (no dependencies)
B: "Create API endpoints"           (depends on A)
C: "Write unit tests for API"       (depends on B)
D: "Design landing page"            (no dependencies)
E: "Build authentication flow"      (depends on A)
F: "Write integration tests"        (depends on B, E)
```

The dependency graph looks like:

```
Depth 0:  A ─────────── D
          │
Depth 1:  B ──── E
          │     │
Depth 2:  C     F
```

This produces three parallel groups:

| Group | Tasks | Why Parallel |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 0 | A, D | No dependencies, no mutual conflicts |
| 1 | B, E | Both depend only on A (completed in group 0) |
| 2 | C, F | Both depend on group 1 tasks |

With `maxWorkers: 3`, groups 0 and 1 run 2 workers each. Group 2 also runs 2 workers.

## Structuring Tasks for Parallelism

To maximize parallel execution:

<Callout type="tip">
  Keep tasks focused and independent. Split large features into small tasks that touch different parts of the codebase.
</Callout>

### Good: Independent Tasks

```yaml
# These can all run in parallel (no shared dependencies)
- "Add user profile page"         # Touches: src/pages/profile/
- "Fix search pagination bug"     # Touches: src/search/
- "Update email templates"        # Touches: templates/email/
```

### Bad: Overly Coupled Tasks

```yaml
# These must run sequentially (each depends on the previous)
- "Create base component library"
- "Build form components using base library"
- "Build page layouts using form components"
```

### Tips

- **Separate concerns by directory** — tasks touching different directories rarely conflict
- **Avoid circular dependencies** — cyclic tasks cannot be parallelized and run sequentially
- **Use explicit dependencies** — set `dependsOn`/`blocks` in your tracker to guide the graph
- **Batch related changes** — one task for "add + test authentication" is better than separate tasks that both touch `auth/`

## Auto-Detection Heuristic

When `parallel.mode` is set to `"auto"`, Ralph determines whether parallel execution is beneficial:

| Condition | Required | Reason |
|-----------|----------|--------|
| ≥2 tasks in at least one group | Yes | Need concurrent work to justify overhead |
| ≥3 total tasks | Yes | Worktree setup cost not worth it for 2 tasks |
| ≤50% cyclic tasks | Yes | Too many cycles means too little parallelism |

If any condition fails, ralph falls back to sequential execution automatically.

## Cycle Handling

Tasks involved in dependency cycles are **excluded from parallel groups** and run sequentially after all parallel groups complete. Ralph logs a warning when cycles are detected:

```
⚠ Detected 2 tasks in dependency cycles — these will run sequentially
```
