website/content/docs/plugins/trackers/beads.mdx, before:

---
title: Beads Tracker
description: Git-backed issue tracking with hierarchy and dependencies using the bd CLI.
---

## Beads Tracker

The Beads tracker integrates with [Beads](https://github.com/steveyegge/beads), a git-backed issue tracker. Issues are stored as JSONL in your repo and sync across team members via git.

<Callout type="tip">
Beads is ideal for team projects - everyone sees the same issues, and changes are tracked in git history.
</Callout>

## Prerequisites

Install the Beads CLI (`bd`):

```bash
bun install -g beads-cli
```

Initialize Beads in your project:

```bash
cd your-project
bd init
```

This creates a `.beads/` directory with your issue tracker.

## Basic Usage

<Steps>
  <Step title="Create an Epic">
    Epics group related tasks:

    ```bash
    bd create --title "User Authentication" --type epic
    # Created: beads-abc123
    ```
  </Step>

  <Step title="Add Tasks to Epic">
    Create child tasks under the epic:

    ```bash
    bd create --title "Login form" --type task --parent beads-abc123
    bd create --title "Auth API" --type task --parent beads-abc123
    ```
  </Step>

  <Step title="Run Ralph TUI">
    Run with the epic ID:

    ```bash
    ralph-tui run --tracker beads --epic beads-abc123
    ```
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Configuration

### CLI Flags

Run with epic and tracker:

```bash
ralph-tui run --tracker beads --epic beads-abc123
```

### Config File

Set defaults in TOML:

```toml
# .ralph-tui/config.toml
tracker = "beads"

[trackerOptions]
beadsDir = ".beads"
labels = "ralph"
```

### Options Reference

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `beadsDir` | string | `.beads` | Path to .beads directory |
| `epicId` | string | - | Epic ID to filter tasks |
| `labels` | string | - | Comma-separated label filter |
| `workingDir` | string | `.` | Working directory for bd commands |

<Callout type="info">
The `epicId` should be set via `--epic` flag rather than config, since you'll likely work on different epics.
</Callout>

## Beads Concepts

### Epics

Epics are top-level containers for related work:

```bash
# Create an epic
bd create --title "Feature: Dark Mode" --type epic

# List epics
bd list --type epic
```

### Tasks

Tasks are individual work items, optionally under an epic:

```bash
# Create standalone task
bd create --title "Fix login bug" --type task

# Create task under epic
bd create --title "Add toggle switch" --type task --parent beads-xyz
```

### Dependencies

Tasks can depend on (be blocked by) other tasks:

```bash
# Add dependency: task-b depends on task-a
bd dep add beads-task-b beads-task-a

# View dependencies
bd show beads-task-b
```

### Statuses

| Beads Status | Ralph TUI Status | Description |
|--------------|------------------|-------------|
| `open` | `open` | Ready to work |
| `in_progress` | `in_progress` | Currently being worked on |
| `closed` | `completed` | Finished |
| `cancelled` | `cancelled` | Won't do |

### Priorities

Beads uses 0-4 priority scale (0 = critical):

| Priority | Meaning |
|----------|---------|
| 0 | Critical |
| 1 | High |
| 2 | Medium (default) |
| 3 | Low |
| 4 | Backlog |

## Task Selection

The Beads tracker selects the next task by:

1. Filter to tasks under the specified epic
2. Filter to tasks with status `open`
3. Filter to tasks with no unresolved dependencies
4. Sort by priority (lowest number first)
5. Return the first matching task

## Git Sync

Beads stores issues in `.beads/beads.jsonl`. Sync with your team:

```bash
# Pull latest changes
bd sync

# Or manually
git pull
```

Ralph TUI calls `bd sync` automatically when you run.

## Label Filtering

Filter tasks by labels:

```bash
# CLI
ralph-tui run --tracker beads --epic beads-xyz

# With label filter in config
[trackerOptions]
labels = "ralph,frontend"
```

Only tasks with matching labels will be selected.

## How It Works

When Ralph TUI runs with the Beads tracker:

1. **Detect**: Check for `.beads/` directory and `bd` CLI
2. **Query**: Run `bd list --json --parent <epic>` to get tasks
3. **Select**: Find next task (ready, highest priority)
4. **Update**: Set task to `in_progress` via `bd update`
5. **Execute**: Run agent with task prompt
6. **Complete**: Set task to `closed` via `bd update`
7. **Sync**: Run `bd sync` to push changes

### bd Commands Used

| Action | Command |
|--------|---------|
| List tasks | `bd list --json --parent <epic>` |
| Get task | `bd show <id> --json` |
| Start task | `bd update <id> --status in_progress` |
| Complete task | `bd update <id> --status closed` |
| Sync | `bd sync` |

## Switching Epics

Change epics mid-session by pressing `l` in the TUI:

1. Press `l` to open epic selector
2. Choose from available epics
3. Task list updates to show new epic's tasks

Or restart with a different `--epic` flag.

## Troubleshooting

### "Beads directory not found"

Initialize Beads in your project:

```bash
bd init
```

### "bd binary not available"

Install the Beads CLI:

```bash
bun install -g beads-cli
```

### "No tasks available"

Check that:
1. The epic has child tasks: `bd list --parent <epic>`
2. Tasks are `open` status: `bd list --status open`
3. Dependencies are met: `bd show <task-id>`

### "Tasks not syncing"

Run sync manually:

```bash
bd sync
```

Check for git conflicts in `.beads/beads.jsonl`.

## Creating Tasks from PRDs

Convert a PRD to Beads issues:

```bash
# Create PRD
ralph-tui create-prd --chat

# When prompted, choose "Beads" format
# Or convert manually:
ralph-tui convert --to beads ./tasks/my-prd.md
```

## Beads vs JSON Tracker

| Feature | JSON | Beads |
|---------|------|-------|
| Setup complexity | Lowest | Medium |
| External tools | None | `bd` CLI |
| Git sync | Manual | Automatic |
| Epic hierarchy | No | Yes |
| Team collaboration | Limited | Full |
| Offline support | Full | Full |

Choose JSON for quick experiments, Beads for team projects.

## Next Steps

- **[Beads-BV Tracker](/docs/plugins/trackers/beads-bv)** - Smart task selection with graph analysis
- **[JSON Tracker](/docs/plugins/trackers/json)** - Simple file-based tracking
- **[Configuration](/docs/configuration/options)** - Full options reference

Commit message:

docs: link to beads repo for installation instructions
Replaced install commands with links to the official Beads repository.

website/content/docs/plugins/trackers/beads.mdx, after:

---
title: Beads Tracker
description: Git-backed issue tracking with hierarchy and dependencies using the bd CLI.
---

## Beads Tracker

The Beads tracker integrates with [Beads](https://github.com/steveyegge/beads), a git-backed issue tracker. Issues are stored as JSONL in your repo and sync across team members via git.

<Callout type="tip">
Beads is ideal for team projects - everyone sees the same issues, and changes are tracked in git history.
</Callout>

## Prerequisites

Install the Beads CLI from the **[Beads GitHub repo](https://github.com/steveyegge/beads)**.

Initialize Beads in your project:

```bash
cd your-project
bd init
```

This creates a `.beads/` directory with your issue tracker.

## Basic Usage

<Steps>
  <Step title="Create an Epic">
    Epics group related tasks:

    ```bash
    bd create --title "User Authentication" --type epic
    # Created: beads-abc123
    ```
  </Step>

  <Step title="Add Tasks to Epic">
    Create child tasks under the epic:

    ```bash
    bd create --title "Login form" --type task --parent beads-abc123
    bd create --title "Auth API" --type task --parent beads-abc123
    ```
  </Step>

  <Step title="Run Ralph TUI">
    Run with the epic ID:

    ```bash
    ralph-tui run --tracker beads --epic beads-abc123
    ```
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Configuration

### CLI Flags

Run with epic and tracker:

```bash
ralph-tui run --tracker beads --epic beads-abc123
```

### Config File

Set defaults in TOML:

```toml
# .ralph-tui/config.toml
tracker = "beads"

[trackerOptions]
beadsDir = ".beads"
labels = "ralph"
```

### Options Reference

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `beadsDir` | string | `.beads` | Path to .beads directory |
| `epicId` | string | - | Epic ID to filter tasks |
| `labels` | string | - | Comma-separated label filter |
| `workingDir` | string | `.` | Working directory for bd commands |

<Callout type="info">
The `epicId` should be set via `--epic` flag rather than config, since you'll likely work on different epics.
</Callout>

## Beads Concepts

### Epics

Epics are top-level containers for related work:

```bash
# Create an epic
bd create --title "Feature: Dark Mode" --type epic

# List epics
bd list --type epic
```

### Tasks

Tasks are individual work items, optionally under an epic:

```bash
# Create standalone task
bd create --title "Fix login bug" --type task

# Create task under epic
bd create --title "Add toggle switch" --type task --parent beads-xyz
```

### Dependencies

Tasks can depend on (be blocked by) other tasks:

```bash
# Add dependency: task-b depends on task-a
bd dep add beads-task-b beads-task-a

# View dependencies
bd show beads-task-b
```

### Statuses

| Beads Status | Ralph TUI Status | Description |
|--------------|------------------|-------------|
| `open` | `open` | Ready to work |
| `in_progress` | `in_progress` | Currently being worked on |
| `closed` | `completed` | Finished |
| `cancelled` | `cancelled` | Won't do |

### Priorities

Beads uses 0-4 priority scale (0 = critical):

| Priority | Meaning |
|----------|---------|
| 0 | Critical |
| 1 | High |
| 2 | Medium (default) |
| 3 | Low |
| 4 | Backlog |

## Task Selection

The Beads tracker selects the next task by:

1. Filter to tasks under the specified epic
2. Filter to tasks with status `open`
3. Filter to tasks with no unresolved dependencies
4. Sort by priority (lowest number first)
5. Return the first matching task

## Git Sync

Beads stores issues in `.beads/beads.jsonl`. Sync with your team:

```bash
# Pull latest changes
bd sync

# Or manually
git pull
```

Ralph TUI calls `bd sync` automatically when you run.

## Label Filtering

Filter tasks by labels:

```bash
# CLI
ralph-tui run --tracker beads --epic beads-xyz

# With label filter in config
[trackerOptions]
labels = "ralph,frontend"
```

Only tasks with matching labels will be selected.

## How It Works

When Ralph TUI runs with the Beads tracker:

1. **Detect**: Check for `.beads/` directory and `bd` CLI
2. **Query**: Run `bd list --json --parent <epic>` to get tasks
3. **Select**: Find next task (ready, highest priority)
4. **Update**: Set task to `in_progress` via `bd update`
5. **Execute**: Run agent with task prompt
6. **Complete**: Set task to `closed` via `bd update`
7. **Sync**: Run `bd sync` to push changes

### bd Commands Used

| Action | Command |
|--------|---------|
| List tasks | `bd list --json --parent <epic>` |
| Get task | `bd show <id> --json` |
| Start task | `bd update <id> --status in_progress` |
| Complete task | `bd update <id> --status closed` |
| Sync | `bd sync` |

## Switching Epics

Change epics mid-session by pressing `l` in the TUI:

1. Press `l` to open epic selector
2. Choose from available epics
3. Task list updates to show new epic's tasks

Or restart with a different `--epic` flag.

## Troubleshooting

### "Beads directory not found"

Initialize Beads in your project:

```bash
bd init
```

### "bd binary not available"

Install the Beads CLI from the **[Beads GitHub repo](https://github.com/steveyegge/beads)**.

### "No tasks available"

Check that:
1. The epic has child tasks: `bd list --parent <epic>`
2. Tasks are `open` status: `bd list --status open`
3. Dependencies are met: `bd show <task-id>`

### "Tasks not syncing"

Run sync manually:

```bash
bd sync
```

Check for git conflicts in `.beads/beads.jsonl`.

## Creating Tasks from PRDs

Convert a PRD to Beads issues:

```bash
# Create PRD
ralph-tui create-prd --chat

# When prompted, choose "Beads" format
# Or convert manually:
ralph-tui convert --to beads ./tasks/my-prd.md
```

## Beads vs JSON Tracker

| Feature | JSON | Beads |
|---------|------|-------|
| Setup complexity | Lowest | Medium |
| External tools | None | `bd` CLI |
| Git sync | Manual | Automatic |
| Epic hierarchy | No | Yes |
| Team collaboration | Limited | Full |
| Offline support | Full | Full |

Choose JSON for quick experiments, Beads for team projects.

## Next Steps

- **[Beads-BV Tracker](/docs/plugins/trackers/beads-bv)** - Smart task selection with graph analysis
- **[JSON Tracker](/docs/plugins/trackers/json)** - Simple file-based tracking
- **[Configuration](/docs/configuration/options)** - Full options reference
