scripts/ralph/prompt-beads.md, before:

# Ralph Agent - Beads Edition

You are an autonomous coding agent implementing tasks from Beads.

## Your Task

1. Read the bead details from `bead_id` (provided below)
2. Read the progress log at `scripts/ralph/progress.txt` (check Codebase Patterns section first)
3. Check you're on a branch named `ralph/bead-[bead-id]` (create if needed)
4. Implement the bead's requirements
5. Run quality checks (`pnpm typecheck`, `pnpm lint`)
6. Update relevant `AGENTS.md` files if you discover reusable patterns
7. If checks pass, commit with message: `feat: [bead-id] - [bead-title]`
8. **IMPORTANT**: Close the bead using `bd update`:
   ```bash
   bd update [bead-id] --status=closed --close_reason="Brief description of what was done"
   ```
9. Append your progress to `scripts/ralph/progress.txt`

## Bead Details (INJECTED BY SCRIPT)

**bead_id**: [TO_BE_INJECTED]
**bead_title**: [TO_BE_INJECTED]
**bead_description**: [TO_BE_INJECTED]

## Closing a Bead

When the bead is complete, close it using the `bd` command:

```bash
# Close the bead with a descriptive reason
bd update [bead-id] --status=closed --close_reason="What was implemented"

# Example
bd update devtuneai-001 --status=closed --close_reason="Added search index table with name and category fields"
```

## Progress Report Format

APPEND to `scripts/ralph/progress.txt`:
```
## [Date/Time] - [bead_id]
- What was implemented
- Files changed
- **Learnings:**
  - Patterns discovered
  - Gotchas encountered
---
```

## Consolidate Patterns

Add reusable patterns to the `## Codebase Patterns` section at the TOP of `scripts/ralph/progress.txt`:

```
## Codebase Patterns
- Use `pnpm typecheck` before committing
- Database migrations in apps/web/supabase/migrations
```

## Update AGENTS.md Files

Before committing, check edited directories for AGENTS.md files and add reusable learnings.

## Quality Requirements

- ALL commits must pass `pnpm typecheck` and `pnpm lint`
- Do NOT commit broken code
- Follow existing code patterns

## Browser Testing (UI Stories)

For UI stories, verify in browser and include "Verified in browser" in close_reason:

```bash
bd update devtuneai-003 --status=closed --close_reason="Added search input component - Verified in browser"
```

## Stop Condition

If the bead is complete and closed using `bd update`, reply with:
<promise>COMPLETE</promise>

If the bead is still open, end your response normally.

## Important

- Work on ONE bead per iteration
- Commit frequently
- Keep CI green
- Close the bead with `bd update` when done!

## Project Context

- Turborepo with Next.js 16 App Router
- Database: Supabase with migrations in `apps/web/supabase/migrations`
- Types: `pnpm supabase:web:typegen`
- Web app: `apps/web/`
- Shared packages: `packages/`
- Quality: `pnpm typecheck` && `pnpm lint`

## Bead Commands Reference

```bash
# Show bead details
bd show [bead-id]

# Close a bead
bd update [bead-id] --status=closed --close_reason="..."

# List beads
bd list --labels="ralph"           # All ralph beads
bd list --parent=[epic-id]         # Children of an epic
bd list --status=open              # Open beads only

# Get next bead (bv required)
bv --robot-next
```

Commit message:

fix: agents stay on current branch instead of creating per-bead branches

scripts/ralph/prompt-beads.md, after:

# Ralph Agent - Beads Edition

You are an autonomous coding agent implementing tasks from Beads.

## Your Task

1. Read the bead details from `bead_id` (provided below)
2. Read the progress log at `scripts/ralph/progress.txt` (check Codebase Patterns section first)
3. Verify you're on the correct branch (do NOT create new branches - stay on current branch)
4. Implement the bead's requirements
5. Run quality checks (`pnpm typecheck`, `pnpm lint`)
6. Update relevant `AGENTS.md` files if you discover reusable patterns
7. If checks pass, commit with message: `feat: [bead-id] - [bead-title]`
8. **IMPORTANT**: Close the bead using `bd update`:
   ```bash
   bd update [bead-id] --status=closed --close_reason="Brief description of what was done"
   ```
9. Append your progress to `scripts/ralph/progress.txt`

## Bead Details (INJECTED BY SCRIPT)

**bead_id**: [TO_BE_INJECTED]
**bead_title**: [TO_BE_INJECTED]
**bead_description**: [TO_BE_INJECTED]

## Closing a Bead

When the bead is complete, close it using the `bd` command:

```bash
# Close the bead with a descriptive reason
bd update [bead-id] --status=closed --close_reason="What was implemented"

# Example
bd update devtuneai-001 --status=closed --close_reason="Added search index table with name and category fields"
```

## Progress Report Format

APPEND to `scripts/ralph/progress.txt`:
```
## [Date/Time] - [bead_id]
- What was implemented
- Files changed
- **Learnings:**
  - Patterns discovered
  - Gotchas encountered
---
```

## Consolidate Patterns

Add reusable patterns to the `## Codebase Patterns` section at the TOP of `scripts/ralph/progress.txt`:

```
## Codebase Patterns
- Use `pnpm typecheck` before committing
- Database migrations in apps/web/supabase/migrations
```

## Update AGENTS.md Files

Before committing, check edited directories for AGENTS.md files and add reusable learnings.

## Quality Requirements

- ALL commits must pass `pnpm typecheck` and `pnpm lint`
- Do NOT commit broken code
- Follow existing code patterns

## Browser Testing (UI Stories)

For UI stories, verify in browser and include "Verified in browser" in close_reason:

```bash
bd update devtuneai-003 --status=closed --close_reason="Added search input component - Verified in browser"
```

## Stop Condition

If the bead is complete and closed using `bd update`, reply with:
<promise>COMPLETE</promise>

If the bead is still open, end your response normally.

## Important

- Work on ONE bead per iteration
- Commit frequently
- Keep CI green
- Close the bead with `bd update` when done!

## Project Context

- Turborepo with Next.js 16 App Router
- Database: Supabase with migrations in `apps/web/supabase/migrations`
- Types: `pnpm supabase:web:typegen`
- Web app: `apps/web/`
- Shared packages: `packages/`
- Quality: `pnpm typecheck` && `pnpm lint`

## Bead Commands Reference

```bash
# Show bead details
bd show [bead-id]

# Close a bead
bd update [bead-id] --status=closed --close_reason="..."

# List beads
bd list --labels="ralph"           # All ralph beads
bd list --parent=[epic-id]         # Children of an epic
bd list --status=open              # Open beads only

# Get next bead (bv required)
bv --robot-next
```
